In this lecture, we take a look at implicit lies.
So the blurry diagram is a process flow.
And the reason I'm showing this to you is to try and explain how an implicit white works.
So if we look at the beginning, the first step is that we set a time out.
So a duration.
And in this case I've used 10 seconds.
Then on the next step, the Tex execution starts.
The page begins to load and then a test looks for the elements.
It then checks to see if the elements is found and if it is found.
The test proceeds.
If the element is not found, then it checks to see if the 10 seconds is up.
If it's not up, then then the test will look for the elements again and again.
It will check to see if the element is found.
If it's not found again and the 10 seconds is up, then the test will follow an error.
So in this case it might be no such element exception.
And then the test ends.
So implicit ways an implicit white is to tell web driver to poll to dom for certain amounts of time
when trying to find an element or elements if they are not immediately available.
The low code is only set once in a test script, so it's global.
If the test comes across an element that has it noted, then it will wait up to 10 seconds before throwing
an error.
And the code to use implicit weights is driver don't manage the timeouts though implicitly white and
then as parameters we set the duration before that before to test from an error.
So let's see.
In action.
So like our lectures, the first thing I'm going to do is walk you through the test.
So I'm opening Chrome and going to automation testing and I'm going to click on the loader link.
Now take note of my two small amendments.
It is loaded link where a button will now appear after 5 seconds to.
And as you can see, there is now a click me button and if pressed it would show a paragraph.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go to this Loder Page and we're going to try and click on
this click Me button even before the load has finished loading.
So what I would expect to happen is that the test without and without an implicit white would try and
click this bottom whites away.
But because the button is invisible, I'd expect the test to fail.
Then when I retry this test using an implicit white, I'm going to set a timer of 10 seconds and that
would be sufficient time for this element to load properly, which I expected.
So then be able to identify the spots in an impressive.
So I'm going to go back to Eclipse.
And because we're in a new section now, I'm going to right click the source folder and click new and
then click package.
And I'm going to call this package section zero six and then click Finish.
So I'm going to if we go back to our default package and let's just get this Chrome demo and control
C for copy.
And then if you highlight the Section six package and do control B for paste.
It would impress that class it met for you and they simply just saves what's in that code that we usually
come across.
So.
First thing I'm going to do with this class is right click and click on refactor and then click rename.
And what this allows you to do is rename the class.
So I'm going to call this.
S zero.
So l01.
So zero free.
Because this is the third lecture in section six.
Even though this is the first lecture with code in underscore implicit white and click finish and click
finish again and you'll see that a class has now been renamed and also the class inside the code is
also being renamed.
So the first thing I'm going to do is update this get method with you out of this website
and I'm going to paste it like so.
The next step once we're on this page, is to try and click this button.
So I'm going to right click and inspect it.
And I'm going to open up runner ups velocity.
And I'm just going to grab that first since I select them.
And I'm going to write driver the fun element by as a selector provide that value and then got click
like so.
So this first test I'm going to do without whites being present to see if it fails.
So I'm going to say this class.
And I'm going to right click and run it.
To see what happens.
So I expect it's what he tried to identify that box and click it.
So far, though, back to Eclipse, you'll see it as an error.
And if we go up.
The reason for the free IRA is the elements is not intractable.
So we need to use an implicit white to resolve this issue.
And how we do that is I write it under the drive.
Manage maximize window line.
Not write driver dot.
Manage.
Dot.
Times dot.
Implicitly white.
And then it takes two parameters.
So the first parameter is the amount of time.
So I'm going to use 10 seconds.
So I'm going to write ten.
And the second parameter we use time unit dot and then we select the type of time that number is going
to be.
So it's going to be seconds in this case.
And then a semicolon at the end of it and you'll see that there's also an import here has been added
for the time unit.
So now I'm going to save this class and then try running it again to see if it resolves the issue.
So we can see Daisy loaded the page and the loader is loading.
And then the button has appeared and you may notice that the paragraph is now displayed.
So that implies the button was found and they get clicked.
And if we go back to Eclipse, you'll see that there is no error there.
So we have been able to resolve this problem by simply using an implicit white.
And the key thing to remember about implicit white is that it's global.
So this line would only have to be set once in a class, and it would be applicable for every test or
every interaction you're trying to do within the class itself.
So I hope you found this lecture useful.
And in the next one will be looking at explicit weights.